So now let's talk about how we can expose services
in our VPC to other VPCs.
So option number one is to make it public.
And in which case, the traffic of internet,
we go through the public internet
and it's tough to manage access.
So here's an example.
We have a service VPC with an application service
and customer VPC with internet gateways
and through the public internet,
they can communicate.
So this works, but it is not very optimal.
It's not reliable
because it goes through the public internet.
I mean, there's definitely some better options.
Option number two,
you may think of based on what you've seen in this section
is to use VPC peering.
And in this case,
in case you need to
have one VPC connected to multiple customers VPCs
you need to set up if you're hearing connections
between all these VPCs together
and that's a lot.
And on top of it,
when you set up a VPC incorrect peer in connection,
you open up the whole network
of one VPC to another
Whereas all you wanted was just to
externalize one application service.
So as you can expect,
there is a better way of doing it.
And this way is called AWS PrivateLink
which is what powers the VPC endpoints.
And this one is also called the VPC endpoint services.
So it's a more secure and scalable way
to expose the service, say to thousands of VPC,
either in your own or other accounts.
And this is what the exam will test you on.
You want to expose the service to thousands of VPC?
What do you use, all the answer is PrivateLink.
So it does not require a VPC peering
or internet gateway,
or knots or route tables. You know,
it's actually kind of magical.
So the way it works is that you have a service VPC.
If your application service
and a customer of VPC with a consumer application
now to expose your service,
you need to have a network load balancer
and an ENI or a gateway load balancer,
but networks of balancer there are most common.
So this network load balancer is going to expose
our application service. Okay?
And on the customer VPC side,
we're going to create an ENI.
And this ENI through PrivateLink is going to be connected
to your network load balancer.
And this is going to go all through
the private network of AWS.
And this is the power of PrivateLink.
So in this example,
to establish a connection between
the NLB and the ENI
there was no need to establish VPC peering before.
And that's really, really, really powerful as a concept.
So if the NLB is in multiple availability zones,
then you need also ENIs in multiple availability zones
and you have a fault tolerance solution
on top of that.
So highly secure,
highly scalable
doesn't require much setup
and really is a good way
to have a filter and solution.
So PrivateLink is an awesome solution.
So a way you could set us up, for example,
just to show you how everything can be used
is for using PrivateLink with ECS.
So we have an ECS service with multiple tasks.
They're exposed to an application about an answer, okay,
but we know that we need a network load balancer
to expose this. So how do we do it?
Well, we connect a network load balancer
to the application load balancer,
because the ALB can now be a targets of the NLB.
The PrivateLink can be established directly into your NLB.
And so for other VPCs
it could be an ENI directly into PrivateLink.
And for your corporate data center,
it could be a private connection, for example,
going over direct connect
or a VPN connection. Okay.
So that's it for PrivateLink. I hope you liked it.
And I will see you in the next lecture.